# Judging others apearance

Our life is involved by connecting with others. It doesn't matter you are making a new friendship, presenting your new product or dancing with your partner. What matters is that you should have a general knowingness about others in the first contact. Most people think that personality plays an important role in knowing the characteristic of people and it should be better to pay attention to, instead of their appearance. But as we all know trusting others for the first is inevitable; because it takes time to know a person. Even if you had a lot of communications with different people, you cannot find out one person's honesty until the passage of time. A good way to have a better communication is to define some patterns that are originated from personality but appearing in the person's appearance and explore that person with these rules. So the major question here is that what should these rules be?

Oxford dictionary defines appearance as the way that someone or something looks. For humans, it's about clothing, haircut, personal hygiene, nice smile and etc. We are trying to improve our appearance according to our tastes. But what are the basis of our tastes? Absolutely our personality. The worse judgment is that exploring people personality in their appearance. Some people assume you have other positive traits as well as your attractiveness. Thanks to a phenomenon that social psychologists call "the halo effect", we tend to assume that good-looking people possess other positive qualities aside from their looks, such as intelligence and commitment. Personally, I believe that appearance is just the reflection of some personality behaviors which help us to find out our audience's basis of characteristics.

Like it or not, you are being judged by how you look, how you dress, and how you care for yourself. It's no news that your appearance says a lot about you. What you wear can inform passersby of your type of employment, as well as your ambitions, emotions and spending habits. People make their assessments in the first few seconds of seeing another; assessments that go way beyond how well you are dressed and how neat and tidy you might look. 

Although being sociable is crucial for a person in customer care service of a company, pink hair, tattoos or piercings have an adverse effect on customer's experiences and may face your sales with problems. Because it is in our human nature! It's natural for humans to judge people and that's a big reason why we have survived. Imagine that centuries ago when our ancestors were gone for hunting and faced with a chronic strange scene, they had two options. first, is to stay and recognize what was that, And another one, escape! obviously, we are a generation of those people who escaped and survived. people that stayed were attacked by a hunter. So our grandfathers paid attention to the appearance aspect of events. Similarly Judging someone by their physical appearance is similar to how bees select flowers to collect pollen from. A bee collects pollen from more vibrantly colored flowers, we don't put our hands on blades because they look like they can hurt us. There is no need to risk oneself just to determine whether a person is harmful to you.

Despite what we have discussed, knowing someone’s personality and behaviors will take time and effort. But in modern ages, due to its complications, people don’t have the time to spend on knowing someone in order to trust them. So people have to judge and trust someone by their appearances and looks. One thing that is worth mentioning is that we should pass these judgments to know people’s taste and likes, and not to judge them. To quote Walt Whitman: "Be curious, not judgmental".